well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so we're gonna start your weekend off
with some good news
nice change right okay
so a little bit of backstory on on all
of this
in 2012 president obama created a
program called
deferred action for childhood arrivals
daca daca probably seen it in headlines
what this program does is it protects
people who were brought here without
authorization
as children these are people who grew up
as americans um many of them
they may not even speak the language of
their home country
these are americans they just don't have
papers it protected a couple hundred
thousand people i think
um i'm not actually sure on the exact
number there
but in 2017 trump tried to end it
okay in june the supreme court ruled
that the way he tried to end it was
arbitrary
and violated federal law so daca was
back
in july the acting head of dhs
chad wolff signed a memo
saying not to accept new applicants to
the program while he reconsidered it
he also cut work authorization down to a
year
okay so in november
a federal judge decided that
chad wolfe had been appointed to that
post
unlawfully yesterday
the same federal judge ruled that since
he was appointed to that post
unlawfully his memo means nothing
dhs was ordered to begin accepting new
applications and it bumped the work
authorization back up to two years
this is a win this is a win
given the fact that biden is supposed to
take
office in a month and a half
it's pretty unlikely that the trump
administration
is going to be able to place this
program back in jeopardy
biden is an open supporter of this
program
he has publicly stated his intentions to
revitalize it
given his statements on asylum seekers
it's not unreasonable to think that
he may seek to find a pathway to
citizenship
for the people protected by this program
because as it stands
they can stay here but they're not
citizens
and there's no real way for them to go
from where they are
to becoming a citizen they're stuck in
limbo
it you wouldn't be
unreasonable if you held out hope
that he was going to try to find a
pathway to citizenship for him
which would be a great thing because
they have been stuck in limbo a long
long time
at the end of the day the trump
administration may try
some appeals or something to try to run
out the clock on
this but it seems pretty unlikely
that they're actually going to be able
to end it
and with biden's stances on this it does
seem likely that we may actually see
some forward movement on this
rather than just trying to hang on to it
so there you go start off your weekend
with some good
news anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good day